and about your connection, if you will.
And you can treat this off the record or on the record, however you want to do it.
I'm really looking at information to try and characterize Haven or more.
Well, we had none whatsoever, or none to speak of.
I think maybe he came across shop once or twice, and he bought one or two books from us a long time ago when he was beginning, but he was very much a customer of college, who was great spending years, as you can tell from the catalog.
That's right.
I'm saying that.
You should try and see Nicholas Poole Wilson as well.
I met Nicholas at the sale.
Yeah, because when I was sort of chatting, I was able to get more out of Nicholas and I was able to ask that.
I respect that.
Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
I mean, I find that even money stops buying in a way.
He brought a lot from John Fleming, by the way.
Yes.
Fleming had a wonderful quote.
which I've documented from several sources, you have to forgive him.
So I think of that effect.
Well, indeed Arthur came up with exactly the same quote, and then the same emphasis to him, I think.
Colin Franklin in England as well also did a lot with him, but Colin's most discreet.
Isn't that what you had on to Colin and Riley?
No, absolutely true.
I think I'm talking to the people I have learned.
But what part is your interest to look into it?
How do you know that Hayler No More is a facilitated name?
Have No More?
Come on.
And especially with a curriculum vitae, such as the one he suggested.
It's just all what happened like.
But did somebody you know actually research the genealogy that he
I didn't go to Stonewall Jackson, but as soon as I discovered that his nonsense about the 4th century Celtics was a complete figment, I didn't see much point in going any further.
But nobody has been able to ascertain whether or not there was, in fact, a Celtic king by the name of Haven O'Moore.
There was definitely no Celtic king called Haven O'Moore.
If you think about it, in the 4th century, people in Celts, people in Ireland, wherever, they wouldn't have been called Haven O'Moore.
That's a 19th century name.
I mean, all those own names, the 19th century English interpretations of Gavis' names.
It's wonderful.
Yeah, and the only people known from that time are characters of religion.
You know, the Finn McCool types, that's something they're going that far back.
He also claimed kinship with Sir Thomas More.
That's right, that's right, thank you.
That doesn't really, yes.
Sir Thomas More's family, again, I'm not a historian, I've got no idea.
But that would almost mean that Sir Thomas More was a descendant of Haven no more.
That's right, and Stonewall Jackson.
I mean, if you bothered to spend some time with genealogists, I'm sure it wouldn't take long to blow that away.
What was I?
You were telling me some very interesting things about him, though, that you had gleaned.
You hadn't met him.
I think I met him years and years ago, but he made no question on me.
I think I was introduced to him very, very scripturally at once.
Would you say that your interest in this has really come since the sale?
since the catalogue.
Yes, before that he was a shadowy sort of figure and one didn't really know much about him and people who did do business with him kept it very closely under their chest.
Except that he was clearly a serious collector.
He was.
I mean, the first time his name came to my attention was, I think, with a career of library books.
Was it Harvey or Veselius or something?
Which he really fought.
Well, that's right.
And then later that was in with other stories about him.
One with
This one is off the record because I don't know the details of it.
The bank lost his bank draft on a commission, a large commission purchase, which they were doing at a low rate.
The bank lost his draft, there's no question it arrived or anything, and he refused to issue a new one.
You know, it was an indication of being really neurotic about the whole thing.
And certainly the career of the library thing was totally out of order.
They actually had to get together with people.
It was like a meeting.
I'm sure, I'm sure.
The tens of thousands of dollars for legal fees.
This other fellow picked up the book on Wall Street.
[Speaking.]
I mean, bibliomania is often described as a disease, but not so often clearly seen as a religious disorder.
Do you see bibliomania?
I mean, basically my book
is about bibliomania, productive bibliomania.
I think it's going to be very productive.
But bibliomania is a word you've got to use carefully, like any mania, because it obviously has a, you know, archaic is when it has a definite medical, psychological meaning, and just a passion for collecting isn't bibliomania.
that can be explained in all sorts of ways, whereas the bibliomanic is someone who is completely obsessed by it.
Have you seen many of those?
I mean, yes, one does know a handful of people whose lives are entirely dominated by dogs.
And these are the people for whom acquisition is the important thing.
One keeps the tales of people who buy books and they literally never open them.
They just have to keep acquiring that.
I'm really interested in the collector who is responsible, really, for, and he may be obsessed.
That's fine.
But he has pretty much.
Well, what I would love to know is who Mr. Wilmore was before he was asked for it more.
Um, Nicholas Kool-Wilson Arthur.
Okay.
That he was Chris and Haven Moore.
Well, Stephen Moore.
Yeah.
That's just a speculation.
They don't know where he's from, though.
What interests me is he claims he goes back 16 centuries or so, but he wants to tell you where he was born.
Yeah.
I would just kind of like to know where he went to school.
Absolutely, absolutely.
I'd like to know if he went to university.
I don't think he did, by the way.
I do believe he had a wife prior to this one, and he does have children in that marriage.
If you can now go down to a town, it would help.
Well, I do know that the current wife is from Kentucky, and they've been married for at least 70 years.
So, yeah, I'm putting it together.
Yeah, it'll come, it'll come, it'll come.
quite wonderful.
Yes, yes, yes.
And the story becomes more exciting.
What's out there?
There's a book collector there who, as far as, I mean, not hugely wealthy, very comfortable, and not the greatest book collection in the world, but a very nice one.
And I won't even tell you anything about him, just that you've enjoyed him.
Steven Cox, James Stevens.
S-T-E-P-H?
V. S-T-E-V-E-N-S.
And what kind of collection is it?
Oh, large.
And how do I get there?
Dock Lane.
Obviously I can't do it as a strip, but would it be worth my attention?
If you're interested in a sort of small eccentric personality to book collecting, yeah.
But is it an important collection?
Yes, he's a very good person, but not a person.
And the focus is what?
He hasn't done that.
Is that one of his charms?
Yes, very much so.
I'm one of the personal charms.
He's close to being a busy mania.
And is he accessible?
Yeah, yeah, fairly accessible.
Outwater, you just get his phone number?
Yeah, yeah.
And what's the name of the place that he is?
He's in Guernsey, in China.
S-U-E-R-N, S-U-I, and all I do is call UMZ directing assistance there and ask for his phone number.
Yeah, yeah.
Can you hang him up?
Yeah, do, do, do.
He's great.
How difficult was it to get there from here?
Oh, it's 90 minutes.
90 minutes?
Yeah.
Okay, I can't do it this trip.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, yeah, next time.
Next time.
I think I'm coming back in August or September.
I was in France yesterday,
really just to get color on one collection, the Carlton Lake Collection from the University of Texas, which is French.
But I really had to go to France to get an evaluation of it.
I mean, having people in the United States say it's the greatest collection of French stuff outside of France is really worth it.
I have to have somebody at the University of Texas.
And I was saying that, and I did.
Well, tell me a little bit more about, well, it's going to be a good book.
And anything that I quote you on, by the way.
I'll run it by you.
Sure, but I'd much appreciate that.
You know, this is done, everything I do is up and up.
I never secretly take you to the people I ask them if I can take you to the people.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, we've got to ask you to, it's like New York.
Yeah, well, but the point is, you know, if people don't want to be taped, that's fine.
But, yeah.
Give me a little bit more insight.
Oh, I haven't got any valuable insight on that at all, but I think the real bibliomaniac is the person who finds the acquisition more important than the possession, even.
I mean, the stories are very true of the collectors whose houses ultimately become so full of books that you can't even get them.
Yeah, Heber has seven mansions.
That's right, yeah.
Or like Thomas Phillips, I think you can mark it.
their collections had a purpose, didn't they?
I mean, there are things that I am sure that Phillips preserved.
There was a caxton.
Well, that is to be found no place else.
This is a great justification of collecting, that at times it can seem like a silly little game.
You know, it's appealed only to the collecting instincts in people.
But then at other times it is...
the terribly important way of preserving knowledge because all of those things are trashed.
Well, if you go into the British Library, you go to English literature, case number one.
Here's the only known copy available.
Cotton.
Someone made a big fuss about it a long time ago.
And because of that, he survived.
That's right.
He was a collector.
He was, you know, how do you see the wind is firing basketball?
That's a pattern in the industry.
That's right.
He was a collector.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I may well not have survived.
Well, I think for sure it probably wouldn't have been.
This staff was from the monasteries that were destroyed.
God only knows what was.
Destroyed and what didn't make it, you know.
Mm-hmm.
Okay.
Well, I've got to run.
I've got to meet this person.
I'd like to talk to you again.
Yeah, sure, do.
It is a hectic day today, I'm afraid.
I've just got my... Would you... This Texas stuff, which are very important, the British Library.
This Texas stuff is very, very interesting to me.
And as I went to France to get an evaluation of the French collection there, I really have to talk to people here in England for an evaluation of British stuff in Texas.
And I just made a very interesting comment.
You said that what you know is that in the 50s and the 60s, they were buying everything that you wanted.
Did you say that again, perhaps?
What I meant was that in the 50s and 60s, things started to fetch high prices in the sale rooms.
And the things that fetched the highest prices normally went to Texas, because there was so much more money there than I was here at that time.
Because I wasn't here in the 50s.
I didn't come there in the 65s.
But fine, perhaps the early to mid-60s, and even though I'm not in the 70s.
But I do remember going to the sale rooms with my damn boss and bidding for things.
And we had absolutely no hope because then there would be an agency
It was buying for taxes.
And it was British stuff that you wanted for the British Library.
Particularly, I mean, I was interested in buying them since then, and they bought a lot of very fine linings in that period.
And of course what they also did, and I was very sensible, they bought English literary manuscripts in which people in England were also interested.
And it is only, sadly, recently that the English has woken up the fact that modern authors' manuscripts are of interest.
Could you give a few examples?
Well, Robert Graves' manuscripts, for example, went to Texas.
And there were lots of English-living authors who sold their manuscripts to Texas.
And they couldn't sell them here, because nobody would be interested.
Well, was there an attitude that nobody was really buying the stuff of living authors?
And that's held sway for many, many years.
It has.
This is almost a recent phenomenon.
Yeah, it is a very recent phenomenon.
Oh, no, there was the attitude that as long as the person was alive, it could be interesting virtually.
You know, really started to buy people's literary inheritance, you know, if they'd been there for a good long time.
People have changed now.
I think now the current feeling is that it was actually quite sad that all that material went abroad.
Although people realized it was their own fault.
But it is also suggested in some circles
in the States, at least, people who are admittedly critical of Texas, or maybe, as Nicholas has suggested, perhaps jealous of Texas.
He's very admired.
Well, I think what they've done, it's probably, you know, they were very sensible.
They had the money, and they bought what they could get.
And whatever the price was, they had the stuff.
And it certainly went more today than it was then.
Absolutely.
But to finish,
A lot of people have suggested, some people have suggested, but these people also have access to crime too, so I have to factor in who the people are.
I'm not taking everything at Facebook.
No, it can't.
I really want this to be a very accurate quote.
But they do say that they bought a lot of junk.
They are in the process of buying a lot of good stuff.
It's almost unavoidable, isn't it?
They cast a wide net, shall we say.
but even some living authors who were obscure then and remained obscure.
Well, maybe in a hundred years time it's become very interesting.
I mean, now we go to raptures over 16th century authors nobody's ever heard of.
Really?
Yeah.
What are Canadian discoveries?
You do suddenly get, there have been in historical sets of papers,
There have been discoveries of literary manuscripts, of different subjects of the poets.
There's one that, well, hardly heard of.
Simply because they never wrote much, never published much, never large editions.
Noughts among the class, you see.
I'm trying to be realising that this is actually very interesting literary history.
What happens, a scholar is going through archival material, manuscript stuff, and
I'm just, maybe you can tell me how the process works, what happens.
How does such a reexamination take place?
I think when they turn up in large collections of papers.
We've had here that we've bought large collections of papers and somebody in the management department went through it with a very fine tooth and actually discovered some quite interesting poems or essays.
by somebody whom he might have just heard off.
And this occasions a re-evaluation?
Yes.
I know this is difficult.
We're just talking here, but can you think of anyone?
Could you think of a name?
I can't think of a name.
The person you asked would be Hilton Callagher.
So I'll make sure we're waiting.
Yep, we are.
Okay.
Hilton?
Callagher.
How do we spell that?
K-E-L-L-I-H-E-R.
Because it does, again, illumin... ...which may seem scary.
You know, they have put together an extraordinary collection of 20th century archive of material.
They really have focused, for the most part, on 20th century stuff.
Because they felt, perhaps quite correctly, there was nothing else available.
That was where their opportunity was.
That's right.
Because nobody was much interested.
Therefore, they might not be interested.
But also, all the great things were really
You couldn't really become another British library.
You couldn't become a Huntington.
You couldn't become a Morgan.
You couldn't become a Hovland.
On the other hand, they bought some of my vacant central things as well.
I mean, in a way of binding, they bought some historical things.
I saw it.
Have you been there?
No, I've now made about three times that I've made plans to go in something in the leaves that I couldn't go.
But one day, I will come back.
They told me in Texas, a number of people that,
Now, I think Great Britain passed a law on the exportation of certain medical materials, prohibiting it.
Yes.
Well, there is.
You need a license, export license, when something is over a certain amount.
So it's really monetary more than anything else.
Yes, the amount is fairly low, therefore it catches the interesting thing.
This prohibits it or requires study?
No, it does require a national institution to buy it instead.
So if you have the option to buy it or to buy it?
No, to buy it.
So if somebody doesn't buy it, it will then leave.
At that price.
Texas believes that this law has passed because of Texas.
Do you think that's... I think it's a general realization.
Yeah, because it applies to all sorts of things.
I mean, it applies to armor and paintings.
It's a fairly recent... No, the painting business has been done over ages.
They have extended it.
And books and manuscripts.
I think, joined in later, I think, but I think for artifacts, this is what has been done with the Bible on the ground.
One of the people I've interviewed in the States is William Scheide.
Yes, yes, I know.
He has a paper collection, too.
Isn't it interesting now?
He knows, you talk about, he's more of a 19th century guy.
I don't have to report that necessarily.
The people resent Texas for this stuff.
I don't know if the BBC did do.
I really don't know.
I think some people might have resented out of sort of theology because sex was given money and institutionalism.
And in retrospect, people might have resented that all the 50 manuscripts went, but I think we were there to blame, to let them go, because if we wanted them, people would have... I do remember a feeling of sort of people thinking, you know, all these wonderful things, isn't it a shame they all go abroad.
But I think resentment, I think resentment has been very close to jealousy, really.
But not resentment that they were leaving your shores and going... Well, yes, I mean, sadness that they were leaving, leaving the country.
But not anger.
At some point, yes.
I know in the BBC, a lot of people who have quoted on their program, these things are going, quote, to the deserts of Austin.
No.
Well, of course at that time nobody had much heard of it as the centre of culture, let's put it that way.
People probably thought, you know, it was one big old well.
You know, it is an oasis, certainly, there isn't much there.
But I'll tell you, when I was around there, there were a lot of people going to do it.
Oh, now people go and visit it.
I think it might be a way to do it.
They were doing research.
Yes, I mean visiting for research.
But it might have been originally that people felt, you know, it's a long way away, and all these wonderful things are going.
A lot of people do resent, and I think justifiably, that they do require you to come here.
I don't think that they're very viewable.
No, no microfilms and no photocopies.
I once went to a very interesting talk by Dekatana on why they didn't allow photocopies in microfilms.
Well, he said, I don't agree with this, but he said that the literary document has its value as a unique document.
And the moment you start making copies, it lost its value as a unique document.
Well, I think that's a very narrow way to tell you myself.
And I don't believe in it.
But that was a justification.
That's a rationalization to require people to come to Texas and to use that to stay on the floor.
And in so doing...
give them a little more sleep.
Yeah, they probably need people to calm.
They're desperate.
And I think that's what it's all about.